You know the difference between real people and characters is characters have to make sense when I make decisions don't understand why the fuk I did that.
Hi I'm still wheelers.
I'm just fishing.
The draught zero a podcast where to I don't even know how to define s at this point podcast where to podcast is trifurcate screenplays work.
And today we are talking about a subject that started out as character decisions but Stu has I think more accurately defined it as character motivations the goal is
to try and find craft solutions to the situation when someone is reading your scrap.
Well ok little of traffic situation would you find yourself in often when someone read your script and goes.
I don't bite the character would do this.
Mac.
Did it does it happen to you stew or is it just me.
The problem with that questions have is it is built on the presumption that I'm writing and sharing scripts which at this point in the year feels a little bit in the genocide.
Ok so we've decided to tackle this topic into,
episodes because we had two very different ways of approaching it so the first one first part this first part is,
how much more traditional draught 0 approach where we found what we believe are some solid craft tools and some great examples of those craft tools
to get the audience to believe to buy a character decision that you may be struggling with and then.
What has become apart to you but was originally our plan for this whole episode was we wanted to look for some,
examples of terrible characters decisions and then see how these craft tools might be applied to fix them.
And for some reason Chaz wasn't willing to share when it is script so we can have to do other examples.
So the great amazing examples of a good character motivation that we have chosen to explore in this part 10,
deep breath.
Notting Hill to all the boys I've Loved Before games night,
in the bedroom Beirut Breaking Bad The Matrix The Lobster blockers.
Arrival A New Hope and I think we've got a few,
a few tangents ahead of us I certainly know that infinity War is a decision that the we might put up on the,
down the board to have a look at in a play some of these craft tools too,
the original plan for the switches become a part 2 was to put out a call to the different social medias empty head to a patron this is to find some,
examples where there's broad audience agreement on poor character decisions so that we could tackle them now.
Where we gonna get more into the sinner part 2 but I we were initially reluctant to,
tackle bad examples cause not because you can't learn from bad examples but because we were scared that it might turn into a kind of review episode or be very subjective nor do we want to pretend that we,
know how to fix these scripts in all films not knowing what led to those bums in the first place but,
you pointed out that if we approach it as if we are to screenwriters who been given the job to fix these problems that this is kind of a a common issue that,
you're coming past that are coming to us right now at,
our points in our career so we can try and approach it that way without trying to be judgemental or try to be as a parrot is empirical as we can,
that fair.
So to point observations my facetiousness aside,
I have been waiting this year and in fact one of the scripts that I've been working on one of the notes that we been working two addresses from a producer and it's to do with motivation broadly character mode a characters motivation specifically but also touches on the motivation of the world
cause I think it's important to note for me outset not that we're going to go into great detail but the rules of the world
set the parameters or the boundaries for that how characters behave so inexorably I think or inevitably we going to be talking about rules of the world in the context of character at the outset.
That's got to be one of the craft tools but it's the one that kind of directly relevant to us.
And the craft tools that I think we're going to apply that's you and I've kind of identified in in muttering about this.
Character patterning time world building C,
raining or expositing the decision itself withholding the decision goal States,
goal setting urgency thanks grip shadow backstory Revelation and then kind of broadly punish onra,
Jonah audience contracts on replying listen to that kind of that whole thing which I guess is external to theirs it's like not well building it's like cuz I'm rebuilding I guess.
Story rules.
Story walls are cos I think it's worth saying at the outside and this is part of that,
not review thing and I know this is going to annoy been so so much so I'm take,
great joy and making him painfully listen to me justify as a white cishet male Anglo-Saxon from Australia in Victoria in a
North Eastern suburb of relatively middle class income and education.
I'll tell you stuff is informed motivation is partly informed by you as the audience of Aries what are the scripts that we're not discussing right,
is the site was the so we didn't get around to it which is this a open and which is it kind of like a revenge Thriller 7 Ron and it's not
Arab interior in a same way that
get wishes at all but part of the contact of that film is you having a greater understanding of how the culture of a ROM works and we bring that back cultural understanding with it and I think if only something like a tradesman like solo
infinity War even sicario to you bringing your cultural understanding of,
the previous films but which genre projects you bringing the cultural understanding of genre but even with drama and we doing a sadly when I doing that much drama you bring the culture understanding of that culture and sometimes you know,
nature abhors a vacuum so we fill in the gaps of our knowledge with our own understanding of the our present world is kind of I guess where I'm roughly saying.
Well you've I'm not sure if you reference a on this podcast before but didn't you have a friend who just didn't buy the in Manchester by the sea that Casey Affleck character wouldn't drink and do drugs because he was married.
And had Anna had children and said he had everything ok well actually things to post it was a red edit listener,
sorry I can't escape handles goats me who said yeah I didn't I didn't buy the character motivation and I didn't believe any drink so heavily when is character seem to have everything going on a lot in,
for rape and I may I know plenty of,
man that are kind of dysfunctional that are heavy drinkers even if they are and any kind of borderline violent and Hardy in that sub
I know I'm just know them in the abstract like there within my immediate circle that's me bringing a kind of very personal world cook for contact with the wall that I live in Clifton cultures not just you know,
Nations or kind of like.
Hemispheres oh I don't know I like like you can have a cultural roof suburban the culture of a family in and some time with the.
Films that kind of challenging it because you can sit there and explain
great detail how the the rules of the world in the world must be the family like in Animal Kingdom where is the TV series or the film or even something like bloodline the TV series but,
that's is going to feel like exposition in the difficulty of catchment avation I guess is a very specific form of exposition.
No no no actually ok now we stayed late cos we should define what we mean in the context of the characters vision what character motivation is so they get this is like the chapter marker here.
Yeah so I went into this thing,
let's fix particular decisions let their sort cos there's a lot of time when writing a script and you can see it in almost any story where there's a disc there's something you need a character to do,
for the purposes of the story and it might make complete sense from a character perspective to the writer and yet often,
Mr. Readers go I don't buy that this character would do that and so so often it's not necessarily that the character motivation is wrong is that I haven't presented it and you took that and said well it's not the decision,
it's have you,
betrayed the motivation the what has led to the character making that decision in a certain way that yes that you know the character the audience can believe in it.
So I guess this we just to the first craft orcs it's as much a.
Craft or was it is kind of like a detailed explanation of what you're talking about which is character patterning,
sounds very fancy and I guess what we should trademark The Lingo and pretend my way dramatica trademark.
What we really talking about his those key decisions often it at breaks or secret breaks where the character makes a decision that they would not normally make.
Compared to the beginning of the story and that part of what a narrative is is the boiling the Frog,
by the end of the film or the narrative they make their making decisions that no longer with made the beginning or as we talked about great length in our excellent Game of Thrones episode.
The doesn't get enough love.
And we your except laugh I nearly every episode,
that's got characters that the Haven very specific ways that we understand we can court character patterning I've also been using this term of character loop recently and I'm not going to get into that explanations it still might making sense to me in my head
except for this idea that characters are kind of stuck in a loop but given the same input,
character is going to make the same decisions and produces a right and then do the context the story at anyone's we've got that pattern established that we understand what the character is.
When I decide to do something different that's the moment the audience goes why are they not doing as for example ok this one's on the list bum pulling out of the bag cos I think it does it very thing which is the commuter.
My first time on a commuter train,
posted 10 year is My Jam.
Answer one basic question what kind of person are you.
Goes great links in the first act not just the first act the first sequence just at least the Liam Neeson's characters pattern of being this commuter of time and gets up in the morning when he gets on the train what training gets to and what where he's going.
And also what's important to him in his life.
Yes it's basically a very great a great version of the character waking up in the morning spending time in their family that cliche is a character patent rights you tryna is horny as the writer trying to set up an n what they do is the cut different timelines of him doing the same routine,
and so when it comes for them to break the pattern quite early we understand that it is a pattern like the wall of comedy no comedies in threes is because first,
you gotta have the first line to set a set it up to to establish the pattern then 3 to break the pan know I'm no Star Trek does this all the time which two kinds of normal human references and 1/3,
reference like I'm really into the great classical composers of Mozart The Beastie Boys and walk from Kronos,
that's a parrot Star Trek people will understand.
You know as per the break the pattern soda thing as you've got it established,
the pattern early on in the computer does a really good example I think when we go into all of these,
as we're stuck on analysing they've establishing the pattern is something they all have to do and then the difficulty for the writer becomes is how do I justify a character no longer,
making how do I get how do I justify or make your audience understand why they're breaking their loop and they don't always have to write,
Jon Snow didn't break the character is character in Game of Thrones as we talked about a great lengths in an episode most of the cages and Game of Thrones behave very predictably.
You shouldn't be alive.
They got well-established pattern.
Well established patterns and will be the point when Cersei Lannister does there in the in season 7 she kinda strikes the deal with everyone we know that she's up to something because he's never not up to stop,
lo and behold she's up to something right and that's what the show can get away with that because their motivations are actually very clear do as soon as we
again talk to great lengths the only person that's not sure obvious answer in that because I don't think she's got a peer paddon established and the people have a problem with that character in Game of Thrones it's cos she's been established is kind of the girl he just wanted to marry the king,
and she's well beyond that but that's the pattern that they've established very early on and they haven't created a new paradigm for that character.
She's only just in the last season had any agency in order to establish any pattern cos
previously it's just been shit happens to her but one of the things I will say is that we're focusing more on features
in particular this episode Stu and I've been sending you out of the challenges to branch more inch TV because that's often weather more interesting storytelling is happening but,
TV has the luxury of time TV has the luxury to spend you know seasons arcs or whole episodes,
setting or resetting a pattern to justify decision where is often features a constrained by time and the.
Two of their decisions that have come up in,
from our listeners out one is in Notting Hill wear an Ascot kisses William.
Skype is the most famous actress on earth,
sorry I'm so sorry I'm really sorry I live.
Street I have.
Water and soap get cleaned up.
I will what do you mean just give it to me.
Hi I forgot my other bag,
sorry about the thrill But Nice, disaster
it's ok I love you have a kind Honey Singh was very low Point.
Anytime you're watching that movie for the first time because it happened so early in the movie you buy it because you don't know who Anna it's you don't mean it also helps that you Grant is quite charming but,
I think what I listener it was Rob Draper I believe his particular issue.
The Listener but a patron so thanks to all thanks to one of our top 8.
Yes so I think the issue is,
after having watch the film and watched it in my case many many times I don't actually buy that decision,
from her anymore because I know the poop she is from having watch the film over and over again but you buy it in the moment in watching the film because that is setting the pattern it is setting the pattern if this super famous movie star,
kisses around man after just meeting him that that morning and that,
here is that pattern that sets I think is untrue of who she is and how she's betrayed for the rest of the film but it isn't an issue because it happened so early in the film.
The first time we see her kind of taking action right so we've got no other contact for it.
Exactly now to all the boys I've Loved Before for those of you haven't seen it it's a really fantastic,
teen high school Coming of Age romance film to Netflix original and the decision I want to talk about is that really early on because,
I thought it was so clever what they did so the premise of the film is there's a girl,
Lara Jean she's in love with her older sister's boyfriend.
It's not that I want to steal my sister's boyfriend or anything I was super happy for Margo she deserves a great guy like Josh,
so what am I letter now wasn't going to send the letter or anything was just for me to understand how I was feeling.
Really I guess it was mainly about how sometimes I imagine what it would have been like if I'd realised how I felt about him sooner.
My letters are my most secret possessions they're 5 total can you from camp Peter from 7th grade will kiss from Homecoming Jamie Ambrose from model UN and Josh.
I read a letter when I have a crush so intense that I don't know what else to do,
rereading my letter is reminds me of how powerful my emotions can be how all consuming.
And Margot would seem being dramatic but I think drama can be fun what are you doing nothing just as long as nobody else know the pilot.
An inciting incident of the film is her little sister taking those letters and posting them to the five boys,
does forcing this shy do good a girl out of her comfort zone and she so completely Freaks,
when she realises what has happened that to escape a confrontation with her older sister's boyfriend hopefully I'm being clear to escape a confrontation with her older sisters boyfriend she kisses.
Another boy whom she loved like in middle school who also got a ladder.
Oh my god oh my god.
Stop that.
The what that does is it triggers that the plot of the film where this boy and Lara Jean what's the boys name Peter,
Peter and Lara Jean decide to pretend to be a couple so they can both win over their respective loves.
First things first we need to have a contractor on the same page about the boers.
For example I don't want you crazy who's going to be the word of relationship if I'm not allowed to kiss you.
Suck this idea this very concept to me flies in the face of the pattern that we've set for Lara Jean and it flies in the face so much that right at the time when they're making the agreement Lara Jean says to Peter.
We know you might be the James Dean of this kind of stuff that I've never had a.
You have the references of an idiot what is that matters because I don't want to be that you kissed me first.
And that reminder it was just such a cleverly written line that they just
clearly the screenwriter's in the filmmakers and everyone was just a way that to get us onto this journey to buy that this girl would enter into this arrangement when she's been so guarded about her love and her emotions,
but they just had to remind us that yes she is the type of girl who would when under duress,
use another person to get what she wants.
I haven't seen it so.
It sounds like a good example so actually showing good examples and I'm trying to think of a bad example where set up for a character happens.
You've identified an excellent wine actually to Chawla in infinity War.
Avengers.
So I think of each other I was going to clean black panther cause otherwise I want a butcher is your name infinity War right so spoiler alert.
Set up for infinity War Is to this particular moment is Thanos is after the I know I know so I've Alyssa's don't want us to do.
Superhero film.
Sorry Suzie.
I'm sorry Susie going to be doing infinity War briefly which is Thanos is after the infinity Stones I create this superpower Gauntlet the macguffin he's chasing the little mini macguffins to get the big makeup.
The garnet that will allow him to wipe out 50% of the Twitter user base in One Fell Swoop and.
Turns out the vision which is kind of Ultron + the mind stone is actually his mind is the one of the Infinity Stone.
Vanoss has the biggest army in the universe and he is knocking start until he gets.
Vision stone we have to destroy.
I've been giving a good dinner for two this in steam I had but it's nature but also it's composition I think if it were exposed to sufficiently powerful and a jig saw something very similar to its own signature.
Molecular Integrity good fats
not having a conversation eliminating the score is the only way to be certain that fellow Scott.
Only you have the power to bed.
Channel threatens half the universe one life can of stand in the way of eating it but it should.
We don't realise vision your life to save how many millions of people tell me why is this Anita.
I understand that's been set up since you know Captain wake Winter Soldier to civil war that deathly Captain America's journey has been two kinds of this interestingly moment of kind of like moral,
individualism The Deathly the sense where he I like the Tom and Captain America now I'm hiding I'm having,
I'm having a hard time articulating it but that idea that he is not that he thinks they're morally superior but he doesn't believe in sacrifice.
He says we don't trade lives so their decision is we are not just going to murder vision to stop Thanos.
Did you save half.
Half of every single person the paint like it's a bad calculus.
Not not on the planet.
Universe like a terribly bad calculus but I buy the Captain America after everything he's been through would believe that because.
Magically with Winter Soldier and all that like he's his journey has been about no longer trusting those orders which would be the kind of thing.
Now.
UI I didn't have in this this decision didn't strike me in the film but it struck you and you raised with me and now I can't get it out of my mind that what the writers did is they put that decision,
to bed by addressing it early in the film we're going to try and say vision and take down Thanos we're not going to kill vision.
We don't treat lights that's Captain America and I believe in based on the context the previous film.
I will I don't want you sad it's your it's your observation I'll give it back to you.
So basically the comes to turn off in his army come to a Kinder to get the mind stone from vision.
When you said you're going to open what kind of to the rest of the world this is not what I imagined where did you imagine the Olympics.
And black panther 2 chillier.
Guitar black panther puchala makes the decision to sacrifice the lives of his soldiers to save vision.
So how big of an assorted we expect up so so I think you should expect quite a big assault how we looking you will have my kings got the bother to ride your daughter Moses mi stable hundred-year-old man.
And in that moment I'm like I don't believe that black panther the king of wakanda would sacrifice his.
People and the security of his nation.
On the gamble at this point there's no guarantee that they would say vision.
It's too late we need to destroy the storm.
I believe that he would trade their lies who visionslive I don't believe it black panther think the vision is an inherently superior the has greater value.
Then half the universe.
Happiness.
But even bet even taking out that kind of calculus that he wouldn't say visions life over having an alien invading force come into specifically his country.
Right lucky is actually it's like we were not trade like he's actually trading my future trading a lot of other people's lives of carrot minor characters right and then Julio I am at was my complaint and Julio Blackwell you need to watch my pants which I hadn't seen,
the thief it helps understand the context of that decision now.
This comes to the character patterning thing into levels,
black panthers decisions quite late in the film it's in the third act they only get to a kind up quite late in the film so I haven't seen him make that packed with Captain America,
right,
he hasn't sat there and go no I agree vision is worth saving and there are arguments for it which is vision is more powerful like if you look at him just purely as a weapon vision is worth saving because he is powerful enough to stop Thanos.
My futsal does unfortunately not right there's a whole bunch of other ways the black panther could explain that decision but he put them in the context of Captain America it's why watch black panther,
and I guess the decision didn't quite rugby have much to come since seen by Panther I mean you could flat as I said you could frame it in in the idea that he's a weapon,
you know that vision actually give them a chance to beat Thanos but the whole calculus is really bad and and I am like it's a terrible I can just Jon Snow that shit like it's terrible,
decision are clearly evident by the end of the film and it's like can you not see it and it's like the car just making a very poor decision on number of axis is and I don't understand why,
and I think baby if he he was part of those conversations early on about vision being significant and worth
like they have to take the risk because vision will give them a chance beyond dislike are visions why is more important than all my thousands of people that I know sacrificed to save him I would have had a better time,
basically you John so batshit and I didn't believe that at the time.
Ok
Now I think you've raising excellent point it didn't bother me in my watch but I think it's there and it proves the point that different decisions made a different times in your stories especially those made by secondary characters,
can have a harder time of being believed by an audience first of all,
either the pattern has been set or failed to be set it as is the case here because he's just not been present in the story up until that point and also liked the plot is picked up hasten it's unwinding,
so
I'm going to say it now.
And I think I've offered at suggestions I also think is a cultural context for this which is I am Australian and I'm of that generation of Australia which is Buck England they,
female soldiers to die as a distraction in quipolly so I'm inherently by it against any military service Ratatouille which is about,
hunger right but that is a,
big part of my upbringing my in that my mum listens to stop asking me knotty head like that can't left wing,
you know Australian don't trust authority,
anyone that would sit there and go vision is were saving above all I'll be like fuck them I'm not going to be in bed not my king,
that exact and that's a cultural things I can't help if they that that's bought it and I'm wondering if and listeners can tell us if being an American,
I'm a mess of the Rugged individual in there a lot more Connor hero-worship then in Australia that they may have had a different reaction going off course you lay down your life to save vision,
how do they.
And the life of all your people and of your nation.
Yeah because you know there are millionaire millionaires a better people.
Ok so but what this I think the main thing that they were missing cos I I don't think they could have.
I mean look at a broader mint earlier but let's assume they keep the same,
structure they just needed to debate this is the decision not for a long time and one of the things that we're the three different tools that we've come up with you are either debating the decision internally.
Or debating the decision with other characters which is essentially like expositing the decision or withholding the decision you from the audience wear that you see the decisions been made but you don't get to see.
You know that it's been made bit gets made off screen.
Which is what they did in with Santa in Battle of the bastards and I never addressed it must have my,
annoying but they kind of got over that speed bump by not giving us access to it and I think in the context infinity War they should have debated it you know the I mean sport optics the black hen laying down the lives of,
you know black men and women to save the lives of white purple alien.
Well I mean that there was a lot of opportunity based on now infinity War black panther work I think,
at some points being shot at the same time and certain Infinity Wars been shot while,
before black panther was released and you're in Black Panther there's a council where there he has internal debates over you know,
nationalism vs hawkish nurse and all those kinds of things they could have just had a council meeting or,
you know he could have debated it with someone from within wakanda.
Only seen some one question it like even if he's made the wrong decision it's kind of ok to see to Charla make the wrong decision.
And I really like the character and I can buy the idea that he thinks it's the Noble thing because I guess.
This is a thing MattyB we haven't gotten in the list but I think you can kind get over the character motivation on a theme addict level I'm obviously being pretty picky with it I long political and cultural lines as well as storylines.
Siematic level The Avengers don't expect to lose that's what infinity is war is about they've won,
constantly in the closest they've got to losing was when it was in civil war and that's cuz it's you know who's going to win aye Captain America or or Iron Man and the answer is
they both kinds of win and they're both kind of who's but that's how it find the balance in Infinity war is there only one.
Where they lose and they all expect a win and I think at that point maybe but Panther expect that they will win because I have a good guys and I guess the moral such he's a thematic framework of that whole film is that sometimes The Good Guys,
you know and,
he makes more sense the decision if he doesn't truly believe that there can be much of a sacrifice cos it's easy to make poor calculus decisions like that if you think they're you're going to play off.
I'm in my life savings making a web series and have been on my career and then you know four years later here you are,
there is an element of that and so get them to bathe in the decision and they tried to get over it by putting urgency on it from memory the CGI monsters are running through the CGI barrier into the army of CGI Condon.
At the moment so we have to make a quick decision about whether or not he's pushing is what.
Yeah well they do they have when they arrived as there's there is a scene in the kind of Throne Room before the aliens arrived from memory anyway.
They had the opportunity to go what are we going to do if they break the barrier which is what in a proper military strategy if these people and then never own it reminded me of the battle of Gondor you just sit there and go man.
I take you guys have never played a RTS game before like.
I get it like largely most Armies of met just standard each other in swing swords into one arm and gets rude it was only the,
they're kind of Romans at Cana to anyway and I'm going to stuck on until about infinity War just becomes infinity War.
But let's let's go into those craft also one of the nice things about this topic is,
it's force that's actually to do more comedies because comedies are excellent at getting characters to believably do.
Absurd things way outside the pattern that is set for them because that's almost the point of a comedy.
So the the one that you told me to watch and I've now watched it twice thanks to 15 hour flights to South America and back is games night.
Tonight we're taking Game Night other night I want someone in this room is going to be taken there can be up to you to find them some other Mystery by defines the grand prize you know what's real and fake,
come and break the door,
ok Rodger that you drive safe.
Which is like if David Fincher did a comedy of people realise was a comedy given that most of your stuff actually really funny in.
Yes a games night is a pinscher very inspired by the game.
It's a black comedy about a married couple of competitive very competitive married couple Max and Annie who are,
Jason Bateman Rachel McAdams and essentially.
Max is brother Brooks turns up and he always makes Max a little inadequate and feel will you be inadequate,
Max Rosie Mark brings a Corvette Stingray in an offer offer to host the next game night at your house is went in cause he's in town and invite their friends along and.
Pixies says his staging a kidnapping as part of he interactive role-playing mystery game,
and winner who solved the mystery will get stingray and then a man is an FBI agent birth send the home tell them about what's going on about the kidnapping and then two more Mothman come in.
Knock out the FBI agent and a salt.
And can happen.
And kidnapping and maximum in the other guests who are important but it's country of earnings the friends.
And
you know they go on looking after Brooks and it made clear to the audience that whatever is happening to Brooks if probably not the game it never says it out right but he's getting the absolute shit been out of them.
There's knives there's frying pans.
Inclusive the film can say it without anyone just sitting there the dummy that back going this isn't real.
I mean it's a comedy set piece they're all still drinking and applauding like the.
Suitable.
Verisimilitude of p fight.
It's it's a hilarious right and so it's playing off the dramatic irony of we know something's going wrong and they have no idea,
what is ok so at this point to stop cos there's a couple of patterns that they've established doll skip over without going into great detail but they clearly set up very early on that the couple are competitive at open
the meq between accent adding is them at pub trivia.
Importance of a couple shots while I want to send the bottle to the monkey and water to ask you sleep
ring Court Justice I like to ask the players to allow me to funny,
ok ok is it getting embarrassing so we need to focus as this isn't a game literally me right now.
And I and everything after that is them being stupid competitive rights we established early on that their competitive and that their Winners and then undermines that pattern very early on and sets up a new pattern with the addition of books to the matrix,
which is the bay go to a fertility clinic and essentially the clinician the doctor,
duck asking Mac about his relationship to his brother because it seems that he's infertile because of stress and then we learn the books if the one that makes Max feel inadequate that reinforce their status your new panin because they play a game of,
charades they play game is raids and then the other one.
Yeah but Brooks interrupts he pauses.
Tell a story.
Quick story Urban Marilyn Manson has taken out your damn self you're my meat or do you mean that you're in the middle of 18 years old.
What is very clever carrot about me cos we establish the characters of Max and Annie together and how that the competitive Winners and then we established to relate the pattern of Max around his brother and up another pattern,
and that is that Max kind of becomes a bumbling mask but it motivates Max to try to beat,
Brooks in this game so it does is double things around estoy understand why is got something to prove that the that also that kind so he get it,
to prove himself to Brooks and to his wife to get his fertility back.
He goes out of his way to believe to go on his quest to hunt down books is there a specific scene you want to talk about.
There's two scenes where they are excellent examples of the characters debating the decision the absurd decision that they're about to take.
Ok so I think we need to get the contacts up to the first act turning point which is or isn't the midpoint they realise it it's not a game.
Define Brooks and then having Green Shoot at them as they rescue him.
They don't have a good thing accidentally shoot at the gun.
Unreal.
Oh my god I said.
What's wrong and that seemed quite like it happened so early but I meant what I was watching us like I was wondering how they're going to stay in this who's that they believe it's all a game in the answer is.
They don't yeah.
Don't have to move the it's not about the characters to make decisions these characters have to stay connected to the idea that holy shit we just gone from a comedy,
like the train to a thriller you know the cage have gone from make-believe do something real and so this is a big hurdle for these characters because yet they compete if there's no reason to think they're going to go from you know taboo and a ticket,
you know this comes to do the decisions that these characters have to make you just to help Brooks.
Yes so they need to go and get the the object the brook sold to an Arms dealer called the Bulgarian.
Is it turns out book si.gs fuck he's actually a black market salesman that's less important.
So it's just Max and Rachel Max is bleeding Brooks has jumped out of the car to save them to you know he's giving himself back to the gangsters just,
so that they are safe and then they have a debate in the car.
I want to do a sweetheart now.
You don't have to take the bullet.
Is it's really clever and yes it's exposition but it's,
it's exposition for the purpose of justifying the characters decision because these are two very straight laced boring,
people who in any kind of situation where one of them's been shot and they're dealing and they're their brothers been kidnapped by what they suspected international arms dealers obviously you go to the cops.
THE ICONIC take it off the board they ask question to the audience would ask which is why can't you just go to the cops,
and they give us a satisfying answer and I think we also believe that these two characters being husband and wife would talk about,
wood wood cap America and black panther can't talk it out about vision I don't know I don't know how close they are so.
What I think black panther would say an alien forces invading cut should we just kill vision.
Like time's up we run out of time.
Or ask the question.
Captain America do you want know all this blood on your hands to save your friend vision cause vision is happy to die like the thing is they're making the decisions for vision makes me very make schematically characters you can buy theme.
Well also I think what the ride is done and as I said it worked for me it only doesn't work for me after you pointed it out so it's almost like a refrigerator moment but that won't work for me because they took that decision off the table early they just didn't.
Genre convention as well no one in the superhero movie Ghost maybe the superhero should die to save all these lives.
And it's like giving into the villain as well.
Anyway we'll get cause I come to go and it also comes to goal State Emergency Angela I think it works for most people,
accept me for a whole bunch of reasons that we're going to I think we keep on coming back to it in the context of games what is the second decision.
Well it's one that serves it happens later in the film and it serves the secondary characters really well which is the three couples somax and Annie and there for friends and now back together.
Ryan Sarah Kevin and Michelle Saturday rate.
I don't know they're in there they're in the car,
and they pulled up out in front of the drug dealers house and they can go into the drug dealers house to steal a Faberge egg now as I said straight lace people whose,
every Saturday night they played games that is their idea of fun and they hear about to break into an international arm dealers house and this is an absurd decision so what do they do they took it out.
Are you guys head home and I will call as soon as I get the a crime,
I'm going with you and it could be very dangerous.
You know doing this.
Ok what happens if you guys don't make it out.
You guys.
You should probably go I mean even know why the old ID.
Each and every person in the car in dialogue provides a motivation as to why they're about to step into that house.
Well I think what is interesting to note here coming back to character motivations both of these in between games night,
more left at brakes they have to get the character over the hurdle to get engage with the story further is there any point if they don't make those decisions they're leaving
the narrative right it's been the context of a thriller not a containing story they can go home,
right so have to find motivation to keep them engage with the story and most of these kinds of decisions you will in,
I would say not in most often you will see these decisions at your act brakes because that's where you're getting characters you have to Country commit to the inner in the context of a thriller or an action movie to having to reconnect to the journey so unless there.
Unless they're like Arnold Schwarzenegger or Bruce Willis the bigger the kind of characters are going to want to run away,
which is what they are in comedies in an action movie I guess you don't have that problem because Bruce Lee's going to not Bruce way we've got Bruce Willis is going to want to fight the terrorists right.
How did you make up your own last name.
I don't know if it's true of the times that you've had your feedback saying,
I don't go with his bit always seems that kind of like those key decisions where I think it's probably sick of Xanax I think they're a consequence of sequences but generally like the end of the sequence pushes the character to the next thing and they kind of turn around and,
and go back to ordering lives and I want it all discussed this one in gsu but you know Luke Skywalker In A New Hope that's actually the an example where they have to get a Karcher over a hurdle,
like to break through the pattern to leave tap tap to break a paddock rate the part of these character motivations as how do you get the character to break that pattern,
and the audience understand it there two separate things and so cos you can obviously get.
You know the difference between real people and characters characters have to make sense.
But that's kind of the whole thing with character motivation as we expect that characters to have it three of parents that,
we can't overlook with people realise because the kind of the visual Ms fashion always be the kind of continuity of of how they lookin at kinder give them back to her,
you're even when I suffer mental illness or like brain decoration stroke and that's in and we both had very close personal experience with that,
people can change quite dramatically and personality but they still them you know but if you did that shit in a film unless you justified it with they've had a stroke,
we would be late I make decisions don't understand why the fuk I did that.
You're absolutely right.
You like you definitely make the scene I played ball games with you why did you make that decision.
But I don't want you make it you get off on on backstabbing people.
Hope winning jazz Colt meaning that the pandemic cause the only person with the candy mech is huge as.
The board wins in pandemic Stu.
Yeah twin a rock and hard places between the board and Chaz anyway.
We've got we've we got we had some good examples I've just debating the decision and,
I just wanted to raise quickly that debate can be internal you know we we gushed over how the lobster built the rules of its world in,
r v world series of antagonist was that V system I think of her sister.
Physicist SMH.
Where in o u credibly get to a point where Colin Farrell is staring at a mirror at the end of the film ready to Gouge out his eyes in the name of love now part of that.
There's sequences in there where they are invoice there in voiceover so that you are able to understand the characters motivations like,
There's a Hole bit where Rachel Weisz is talking about how they falling in love and a hiding their love using secret code like body language.
We developed a code so that we can communicate with each other even in front of the others without them knowing what we are saying,
when we turn I had to the left it means I love you more than anything in the world and when we turn our heads to the right it means watch out we're in danger,
we had to be very careful in the beginning not to mix up I love you more than anything in the world with watch out we're in danger.
You can have your characters debate internally I mean god I can be a cliche decisions where characters just like sitting at a bar and that you know put down their drink and stands up and walks out.
We give you a moment to realise that they're processing it yeah.
ACA funeral.
And it you eat even if you might not have bought the the Dakota metre decision.
That the fact that you've seen them processing it a lot of this is about time you know we mentioned time only on it's about not just time in the story but time for the character so that you can get to that next plot Point.
Ok he's he's one that relates to rules of the world but also kind of internal external debate which comes to mind which is arrival.
I used to think this was the beginning of your story.
Bound by time by it's order.
Hey you the sheriff in this here town is my Tikka guns and I'm going to get you.
Remind me to chase you you better run.
I remember my.
When Louise and this is obviously spoiler the Amy Adam's character her choosing to make chicken to have a child even though that she's knows.
That their daughter will die right.
Die Young of course you're going to divert Die Young and it's Kai the whole structure at the film is baking making about us understand that moment but you still have to have they still have that home voice over,
we're she talks through it.
Hannah this is where your story began.
DVD parted despite knowing the journey
and where are we.
And obviously we offer c character not understand the decision which is in the Jeremy Renner.
If you could see your whole eye from start to finish.
Maybe 80 feel more afternoon.
Some ways you can show your motivation before showing a character is in contrast to it,
because ultimately it's a me it's Louisa story she knew at Ian didn't know he's angry at her because he didn't tell her have correct rate like that's why we get the idea.
Yeah he's angry because he might not have had the child had he known she would have died young having the full information that she had.
She can't explain for the audience in voiceover doesn't she poops otherwise we will be like well like it gives us access to her making that decision bit of internal she's not debating it with.
And the whole structure the pool opens with her having a daughter in those memory so we are emotionally are positioned with,
wait I mean I don't know what you would call that but we are very much in her in with her emotionally so we understand why she make that decision and it's not a lot,
decision.
Character decision I think about the girl like alien teaching the weapon language the weapon.
But it would have lost all the somatic and emotional punch like it would have lost the catharsis it was like what makes me love that film is building to that character moment.
Get emotional just thinking about it but I mean that's not something I expected to,
Stu Simon was saying as we watching the filming that just got me thinking about that in the context of it and it's not withholding the decision it all we've got,
we actually it's the opposite me very much giving us the information to put the decision in that kind of preparing us for it at the beginning of the song.
Well what I would say is it's not withholding but we realise that it was a decision at the end of the film,
we didn't think at the beginning of the film that she decided to have a child knowing that that child would die young and should go through all that suffering and it's only by the end of the film that we realise she that's the decision she made.
Yeah it's different three contextualising it's recognising the decision where is withholding the decision or something else.
Yeah we we talked about in the bedroom and last episode of so long ago with their Stephen Cleary.
Maybe Mae still Khalid listening to it.
Just thinking,
are you where are the boys for dinner my business
you take my kid.
I know I should do in the bedroom briefly summarise like re-contextualise that episode which is essentially what we talked about was when the Tom Wilkinson character whose name escapes me.
Matt yes so try briefly summarise that filmed again which is that Matt and root of the parents with Frank who's played by Nick Stahl whose,
Hills? As whether it was like first dream order by Richard Strauss who's the ex-husband of Frank's girlfriend,
Natalie played by Marissa and the whole second actors that films Ruth and Matt being,
basically struck by grief and stuck stuck at do it really like a loop of group but they can't seem to escape and,
it ends with a confrontation between them that pushes were basically Ruth if uses this is my interpretation but now it's out,
7 here I can continue to push it cos I think it's correct well I get to Amy because it's how I understand the K2 motivation which is basically roof accuses map of not doing anything,
write the he can't be grieving because he's not doing anything and then Matt the next with the third after that confrontation between them we seem at.
Napa basically kidnap Richard Strauss at gunpoint driving out to the woods where him and his friend kill him.
What is your door.
Tried to run.
Pick him up.
MMA he drives by Coman and Ruth like cheers mate you want some sausages and eggs and bacon.
What becomes clear,
is at in in that exchange between him and his wife is that they had previously discussed this plan and agreed upon it together,
and what they withhold from the audience is a never show us the scene where Matt and Ruth sit down and say,
hey do you think what the it would help you in getting over the grief of a lost son if I went and murdered his killer,
and she goes yeah I think that would be a good idea let's do that.
I think they actually had that conversation and I don't even think they had that conversation.
When when he gets back into when he gets back into bed the first thing she says is.
Are you alright Matt.
I'm absolutely I think she they planned it together I don't think she said I will forgive you Matt if you do this thing for me I don't think it was that,
Vicky Point is they play the whole food at as a series of Revelations the audience we are absolutely behind Matt we do not know what he's doing he appears with Richard he tells which is putting on on an Amtrak because he's going to witness you want him to run away to Canada and we buy at then he takes time out to the woods and says he's going to let him go and we
kind of are behind Matt until the moment happens we don't know what he's planning and it's withholding their decision because.
Stephen with reacting to in an episode is he don't you didn't believe that Matt would ever make that decision right and that you were saying.
All route.
All roof where is I disagree but maybe I just know more ruthless no pun intended but I'll take it.
I don't you know maybe I just hope it's people like emotionally out when I first or any when I saw it again on my kindest and I'm at coming from I know that's really dark but,
you know like in the context of their relationship.
Look of the film works for a lot of people but where I did agree with Stephen in the episode is I don't think they,
you have been really hard to have that scene where Matt and Ruth argue their way to the point where they agree that killing,
this guy is the best option for their grief.
Best options every strong choice of words.
What is the what they come to,
so the filmmakers and look they do it for as you say tension and reveal and Mystery reasons like there's structural reasons why they would help the decision we discuss those at length in the informatics sequences episode but I think it's also,
goes to character motivation it helps the audience not have that character bump because they never see the decision getting made.
Yes and in fact it also then follows the argument the argument,
it's not immediate cause that's a beautiful sequence with singing but it there's a big climbing argument for the first time they really talk to each other build up beautiful singing then he does this d c u ab series about getting you over that.
My dear and sometimes that might be the better way if it's like there is no way this Auckland this position can be explained to the audience the maybe we just need to see it,
and then becomes and becomes an exploration of so in the context of
thematic sequences is why did Matt do it will it really help him overcome his grief we actually read about the questions that he and Ruth of probably debate it on some level,
I guess what I make size questions of us why is he doing this does he really think it will bring him peace where is if put that in the mouth of the characters we don't believe it or it just means we're kind of,
watching a sequence on pole makes it more siematic.
Yeah absolutely.
Can you think of any other examples where they withhold we decision.
Mason Francis Kyle 45 years old
10 years ago he was.
New one of you can tell me what I'm doing here girl American fall off string lights down next morning we go to communicate from a group calling itself the release of Islamic liberation navigator want to talk you want YouTube over the now.
Well this one is a bit easier on the film he bumped me but they get away with it because it is,
essentially the first at turning point so it's the movie Beirut which is written by Tony Gilroy
head of her to excellent podcast with on them the moment with Brian Koppelman where Tony Gilroy talked at length about that project that he's had in his draw for I know 20 odd years.
And it did Brian ever talk about rounders.
Brian talks often about rounded.
That's it that's a joke jazz that's the.
Hahaha so in that film The set up is that Jon Hamm,
kind of biskota name but he's a Diplomat in Beirut and his wife is shot in a terrorist incident,
he leaves Beirut and the diplomat us diplomatic Corps,
and you cut to him I think it's around 10 years later if not slightly more than 10 years later he is a private consultant in the US in conflict resolution he's an alcoholic and one night.
Nefarious character clearly like a CIA agent comes and says.
Wake up calls why can't fire alarm friends in Washington old friends were mutual friends.
No I'm in the area now that's what are surrounding time American university in. Someone line up to get electric this weekend Newcastle.
Cross-cultural arbitration topics all my friends your credentials you'll be in a long day and I'll never forgive you.
$6,500 and first class ticket
I wouldn't about 2 bedroom if the last place on Earth.
And then I almost do like a a comedy cut where it cuts from him saying that to him being on the plane on the way to Beirut and.
I didn't feel.
That they had set up in that first third of the movie enough patterning that made me feel that he had anything unresolved that he feel he could resolve by going back to Beirut.
So that moment bumped me I'm like he's just sad and I totally believed him when he said I will never go back to Beirut.
I'm so instead of overturning that,
then that we find ourselves on the planet and what that forces me to do is Percival it makes me go well ok he does make that decision.
I'm I'm bummed about the character patterning but clearly there is something on result so it primes me to ask what is it that unresolved in Beirut why is he going back there so in a way that's a good thing
so it gets you
it's almost like the bump triggers the questions that the filmmakers want me to ask but a trade-off is that I'm not in the movie for that period of time I am,
sitting back thinking about the character and wondering about what's going to unfold.
Yes I haven't had again you know I didn't get the chance to see it so am I.
Yeah yeah.
Does that make sense.
Having be related it to you and you per the exit.
I wasn't actually listening I was thinking about.
And it works because you don't understand my motivation for not answering your question and then Revelation is because what I did in the past was move the Breaking Bad truly can't.
Because I think related to withholding the decision there's another version of it,
when is Revelation a backstory Revelation this can be in the form of flashback when exploration when we see anyway the roots like is it done is a bit of a revelation that helps us understand the motivation,
but it's it have to be any when it's not an argument it's not the actions done it just give us a bit of context right but a more detailed backstory Revelation I guess is the one in and I can remember it we got in the car which is in,
Breaking Bad,
when I think the Revelation Yasmine talking about where we realise what happened to walk in the park with his friends he's kind of her prize that what you were specifically.
Yeah well this is quite early in season 1 I can't remember exactly which episode it is but he's got cancer he doesn't have the money to treat it.
Which is motivation to go into it but they have to they go beyond that they they kind of find another way to go deeper.
And what happens at the end of this particular episode is he goes who is very wealthy friends who are very wealthy because of a technology or a.
They found it grey matter tech not it was ok I've got the founder grey matter Technologies with Elliot summer class plane in a close friend.
And he sold out his painting really early on and missed out.
5000 year after he dated his ladder system we don't do we have what went wrong,
backstory we don't really need it we just know that he'll eat that he sell that is 5000 then Gretchen to his ex and his friend marry and make a fortune much of it from waltz research is a chemist.
White and grey matter.
Oh ok well back when Elliott nowhere in grad school we came up with the name.
Schwartz black or white so together they became,
grey matter technology company with Ali.
And.
At the end of that episode like they've deliberately accepted an invite to a dinner his wife is setting him up to art to tell them about the waltz illness,
basically to ask them to pay for walt's care and they get to that point and.
Elliot.
Hey hey Gretchen how are you what a party tell me about the cancer.
I am so sorry.
It is what it is I guess you know what thank you.
That money as far as we're both concern at that belongs to you even the name of a company if it's half your ass.
Is it about you and me.
Urchin I really appreciate the offer.
They offered a paper waltz care and it would be the end of the whole fucking show if Walt said oh thanks very much so you know they didn't have to have this whole,
rich friend loss of patent,
storyline in there they didn't have to have an option for Walt to go and ask for the money and then decide not to take it but it is such an incredible piece of drama and that one episode where.
You know someone has so much pride and it plays out over the five seasons that someone will have so much pride that they would rather cook and sell meth.
Then to take money from a person who they feel wronged by.
I mean I think that's what's important cause they need the case we said we went doing television but this is important because the thing is with the problem with that,
it's like the um the cancers like this little mini starter engine and then the pride is the real engine right,
the little starter engine at the cancer put SIM in a position breaks his pattern of being unhappy chemistry teacher opens up the new world but a new pattern established it's itself,
which is his which is his pride and it's his pride that drives the next five seasons call over next four seasons because,
with it as you say the cancer could go away don't have to keep on inventing like I work answers not in and cancer could be.
Well it does go away.
And Uncle waiting keeps on doing it but you know like can go into remission he could have other options they needed to find a reason to keep him in the story to make a decision,
that would otherwise help him this is not breaking him breaking the pattern is reestablishing the pattern so I get often when you break the pattern this early in story you break it but you can't re-establish it,
because what we think the pattern is is he's just cooking meth to make money with cats treatment,
re-establishes is this new idea this new version of Walt who's driven by Pride,
and don't cry because it's clinic you almost becomes revenge,
you know he is driven by a sense of proving himself revenge is not quite the right word but it's in there.
Video most get satisfaction out of the fact that like if I die they're going to feel guilty is well there's so much wonderful stuff babe didn't.
Spiteful that's what it is I think he's spiteful spiteful everyone except Jessie papal Skylar,
Eminem's what makes me such a fascinating character who gives digimatic engine and so maybe sometimes with your motivation I can't think of another example but you kinda need that starter engine but gets your character,
into a situation and then you can you can take them further reveal aspects of their character as we go deeper.
Minutes a wonderful piece of character patterning in itself in the early episode of season 1 is,
setting up the pattern that will play out over the next five seasons so that's fantastic just in that episode of itself they had to take a man who was dying from cancer and unable to afford treatment,
and build him up to the end of that episode where someone offers to pay for his treatment and he refuses them.
And they built that up by showing all the back story that explains to the audiences character exposition but.
Adelaide Show at do they Shorten with explaining the bay flashback.
There are that no they don't they flash back to him being happy.
Yes.
Doing the research.
Calcium is not a trace that I never would have fun.
Perfidious flashbacks.
Well I mean it is not necessary but could you imagine that final scene I lied I don't want to change it cuz I love how in the bedroom ANZ but that scene the final scene is Matt.
I think you know he's lying in bed looking up at the ceiling and roofs downstairs and she's cooking eggs and if at that point they flash back to the fictional conversation that we got in our heads of them deciding to do it.
It's not a good dramatic decision but it would have address this issue of character motivation by reveal through backstory.
I'm trying to think we'd other example with flashback but it's the most obvious choice but backstory can also be a character sitting there and explain their character wound I wish we had more examples,
call Sophie structural and then I might come I'm actually kind of coming back tonight in Hillview,
I wish I never sat down what's the whole thing front to back because of draught your oh I've seen large chunks of it out of order.
Which is that Anna's boyfriend that's revelation.
Hi hi.
Him to do that.
Because my boyfriend was in America is in fact now.
Room service.
Hey guys always were those penguins usually but I was just to go home but I thought I take this final call.
If you don't mind I would like something to could you bring me up some really really cold water.
We don't see see that she's making so we don't know we don't realise it she's making a decision to it's not cheap but kind of borderline white she's in her.
Romantic Lee date another man while she's in a long term relationship.
Don't say committed relationship because clearly there's not have commitment issues but they make that later right there is a version of that story where we see her with Ali they've made that later they withheld that decision and then they play it as a,
Revelation that she's in that too weary can't extra light we kind of recontextualized her,
kissing will 3 also that learn that Alec Baldwin dick,
pretty early on so we then and then smile she has a boyfriend I'll he's a dick right so we have those moments that help us contact Elias her decision right which is that obviously she feels.
Uncomfortable dating like that you feel that you have to date within her kind of circle,
you know and it's obviously think kind of work like Revelation is away like how you we talked about point of view in weighted,
in relation to decisions in the Game of Throne episode and I've kind of been Revelation is part of that how we do we reveal,
decision to the audience in the order that you do that can change how we feel and can change our audiences willingness to by the decision.
Yeah there's a lot of characters in Game of Thrones that it it's backstory reveal that's usually telling of a story I can think of a number of instances where the spider says talks about.
What happened to him.
Before all this I was going to tell you the story of how I not here it's how I don't know do I.
As a boy I travelled with a troupe of actors through the free cities one day in May,
certain man made my master an offer to tempting to refuse I fear the man meant to use me as I've heard some men used small boys but what he wanted was far worse.
He gave me a person that made me powerless to move or speak yet did nothing to dial my senses.
Cooked blade he sliced me route and Stan chanting all the while he burnt my parts in a Brazier,
the flames turn blue and I heard a voice answer his call.
I still dream of at night not of the Sorcerer not of his blade.
I dream of the voice from the flames was it a god the demon Counter-Strike I don't know.
The Sorcerer called and I've always answered and ever since that day,
I have heated magic and all those fat you can see why I was eager to eat in your fight against Anna said his red priestess.
That he talks about his past as a child Just to provide.
To get us over the bump cuz we don't still don't understand what the hell Barry's actually once but that we get over the bump of why he may be supporting a particular character at any given point in time.
Battle reveal petyr baelish is backstory is a reveal I'm trying to things characters have revealed Jon Snow and the mum,
Catelyn Stark not really kind of loving him a little bit like that all reveals to explain Cadre I mean I think I'm in thrones' as we talk about it very clearly it's great.
Establishing character patterns in these backstory Revelation help us recontextualized the code to change very and Lannister his relationship with his father was obviously toxic.
So I think that's gonna skip me into but we might end up coming back that we've talked about doing a backstory Revelation episode like how do you manage characters sitting there and dumping their backstory like how do you do it in a way that make sense.
But I'm gonna come again in spirit of revisiting these things well building cos I was thinking what's another example of well building the context of decision-making but not in a moment like we are very much talking about moments.
The Matrix is a really strong example of well building rate of the starter engine leading into bigger decision.
Have you ever had a dream Neo that you were so sure was real
what if you are unable to work from danger room how would you know the difference between the dream world and the real life.
By the end of the Matrix we have to believe that Keanu Reeves is going to mow down people at a bank with a minigun right like whatever is all those guns like a brutal be violent,
and they start with him being like this sheepish pale skin guy that's like into code and that's where they have to take the catering it's a series of decisions getting there and the starter engine is taking Mike,
the pill the red pill on this probably a series of little moments that kinda.
Follow the white rabbit.
By The White Rabbit.
A lot of people like you watching that film a lot of time thinking back on it I forget just how long it is before he wakes up,
before he takes the red pill like there a lot of there's two or three sequences you know like where they're chasing him through his own office where is working.
I've been looking for you now I don't know if you're ready to see what I want to show you but unfortunately you when I have run out of time they're coming for you now and I don't know what they're going stand up for yourself.
You got that the question sequence where is got that.
Sea of his mouth yes Mouse disappears.
Appointment gaming with scrap I know right I want my phone call tell me.
Phone call.
Important because we also have to believe he's going to make the surgeon to take the red pill.
Right but we have to believe it is going to take the pill and if it was just then stopping him and go hey dude take some take a spill or see the new reality will be late what did he do that they have to show that his whole.
The great thing that there's a great thing that they do about that is that Morpheus doesn't give him all the information and that's even called out later in the film Cypher says.
Richter if you would have told that the true we were.
And I'm just a bit there's that and me but they also have the whole thing going to be stomach his mouth agents after him like there's a whole series of events on your reaches that point where completely with him when he takes the pill.
Mack the starter engine that gets him into that world's obviously there's a whole bunch of crazy ship the there is the line about.
The Matrix is a system the on that system,
when your inside you look around what do you see businessman Central lawyers Carpenter,
the very mind the people you're trying to say but until we do people are still apart of that system and that makes them.
You know that the factory they can be Collateral Damage so he's OK with mowing down everyone.
Yeah well that there are all the Potential Threat.
I have said one of the most I've got in on what am I skipped too many times that I had to change it was like people like in payload going in the in the future vision me Lang man is going to a really violent he kills other people on wait till like 3 people,
like more people died in like a superhero film as collateral damage we just don't write out just the violence feels really real right like a,
and that's what I'm feeling do it do it.
So do you want to lead into the to gsu is the last craft tool.
Yeah it's not really Jess you so I guess we doing to me talking that externally motivating factors so I think there's an example,
which is a pre Rags apple for me to use in any episode which is a new hope,
Star Wars I think what's interesting about that I'm picking physically about work it's external character motivation.
Sphere.
You can all time speed up the harvest to teleport me after stroke.
Scoring your looks like your voice actor,
you know the rebellion against the empire that's how we came to be in your service if you take my meaning.
Luc espace is a desire to leave tataouine to join the academy in fight the empire rebellion fight the empire with like his friend Bix I didn't have that great moment of him looking up in for some set builder doesn't actually,
leave his kind of,
anchored by the presence of Uncle Owen and aunt beru and I guess you could call it a character loopies got the desire to leave but the circumstances that he's in mean that he doesn't and ultimately answer when,
the mission comes a calling when you had the call to adventure he refuses.
You must learn the ways of the force if you're to come with me to all around all the rage I'm getting too old.
Get involved got to do it's not that I like the empire here but there's nothing I can do right now.
A long way from that show how my everything explained learn about.
You can get a transport seriously of you going.
Supplications are kind of enforce through uncle Owen and beru,
and ultimately what happens if the pot Machinations have to be such the point that they are killed that his obstacles to him joining.
Obi-Wan Kenobi on a damp all around,
I removed so it's kind of like a different way of doing character motivation because I think there is this probably category of,
never seen it the bad examples there a kind of the category where characters have desires or wants,
and there are anchors which is the terminology that I would put protective Coleman the loop back keep them where they are that mean that they don't change and the plot has to come along and wipe those obstacles a way to enable them to go on one there,
adventure and I think what is important to note here is that these characters kinda have a.
Expressed a desire but there is something to say when they go on that Adventure it's not super unsurprising that they join them like,
getting mixed messages I don't leave tataouine then I am proven and and Uncle Owen it Dad I guess I should take up moisture farm in their honour,
it doesn't quite work so I'm trying to give other examples cos it's kind of origin story stuff but maybe not.
Can I unpack this example a bit more because I think it's it's highlighting both of craft all that we've already covered as well as,
the final one that we're looking to cover this episode so the first one is character patterning right so what you're talking about bye,
we've been presented with the character loop as you as you put it where Luke has been presented with the decision already and taken an option establishing his pattern he's given us,
at that point the reasons why he's made the decision and would you identified as an anchor to his to his want and then,
the second craft tool to allow us to buy that this kid is been raised on a farm.
Will take off into the universe in on unknown Adventures Puffin that sounded awesome,
is that the plot has externally intervened not through his actions,
to but to remove those anchors and that's as you say change the input and change the loop but that decision might have struck acid or certainly very different,
from Luke if we hadn't had him make that decision previously and express that desire if you think about if Obi-Wan had presented him with that decision,
without having us set that pattern offset that loop it would have felt very much like Luke is just like I've lost everything here and I don't really know what to do so I'm just going to follow this old man for a lack of anything better it would have felt so much less active then,
the fact that he'd already expressed that desire to go.
It does another thing
which is not something we talked about a lot in this episode because changes the way that we feel about Luke it establishes a pattern the anchor he's like I called as an anchor but it's still a conscious choice for him not we could run away.
Right but he doesn't he's loyal.
Do what you feel is right.
He cares for these characters and we just answering the omni care that's why but I'm in the film doesn't dwell on his reactions to seeing a smoldering remains but we get a sense that he cares and that is a character pattern for the next.
5 films.
Like the Original Trilogy Anna next well except it disappears in three obviously didn't care that much in the force awakens very much.
Do not get us down to last Jedi path there's going to be too many troll.
Relax like it's something that really works means that he has it actually she came along and we're like gave him a ticket off world and he just a band them if they change the way I feel very clever because,
the pot remove those obstacles so we don't blame him or hold him in any Il regard,
for his decision to leave in fact where with him we make that decision to seek Revenge there's nothing left you know there's nothing left me Mary said it,
there is a version of that where yeah R2 D2 comes along and finds Obi-Wan over ones like let's do it and he's like alright see you you know,
I made a conscious choice.
Absolutely is like it's a really great dump I'm in so archetypal but there's a reason why those films I think.
Are so powerful despite being so archetypal but I just want to I guess,
insert a Word of caution here because I feel that the craft or were exploring I've basically the writer using external
plot forces to push a character over a decision is in fact probably the most relied upon.
I like big go to all the first option for writers and often results in
those I don't buy that character moment because I guess the external pressures might not be sufficient to have overall that previous patterning so this the reason why I brought up both craft tools is that they've set up
both up and that he wants to go and as you see the pattern that he cares for people that he's loyal that his honorable so they set up these other patterns and then,
get the use the plot to a.
Change being put to remove the optical cos I think be examples that are popping into my mind because we kind of did this in a different way with Marvel folks are acts episodes is that like.
What's interesting about like Doctor Strange Guardians of the Galaxy and Iron Man 2 the three films that we did is a similar problem which is how do they make those characters to stop being selfish arrogant man,
white man.
I may have external ports obstacles that come along and reconfigure their lives but they have to then spend the second act,
changing them or at least the beginning of the second act changing who that redefining those character patterns so by the midpoint release all or the 3rd at they feel a lot less selfish then they were.
I can fuel Susie's bagla at us for diving back into superheroes but I think it's also important to note that all of those external plot,
interventions while they are external be at least in the case of Iron Man and in,
well actually in all three movies that triggered by the characters actions are in Iron Man,
yes he's gets captured by terrorist but he gets captured by Terrace because he's in Afghanistan trying to sell weapons in Guardians of the Galaxy,
what's in a salad pita grill is stealing the macguffin,
and betraying yondu in the ceiling of the mcguffin that triggers you know the plot from that and in Doctor Strange you're his arrogantly speeding in his car while not accepting medical cases.
Yeah I guess so what I guess you observation am before we pendants gsu,
terminology is only useful in so far as a kind of gives you different viewpoints
are you stupid anchor with Luke and I think that's different to those Marvel examples I'm using it because it's actually what about those Poppy what episodes is it there all character flaws in Away character flaws,
character wounds are kind of internal anchors right but they are character loops beats those loops then having to be broken the lipid Doctor Strange had to be broken,
by ultimately the situation escalating to his arrogance brings him I'm done with Tony Scott and until lesser extent be equal
and that's the difference where is Luke is I think it's got I don't think that's it I don't think I've ruined uncle Owen our wounds or floors in fact I don't think Luke
traditional dramatic sent as a character flaw or a character moon or ok to go sweat anyway cold,
those ideas but they're all kinds of forms of anchors that then need to have external pop plot interventions,
to motivate those cases but the patterns there are they also are established that Iron Man's arrogance defines,
almost the rest of the end of phase I'm in face-to-face 1 phase 2.
And we in phase 3.
God maybe it's a very good job a lot of it is him,
I never came off the weight the tangent but I think that is a really good example is thinking of your flaws if you want to use that kind of very traditional narrative,
hello I am I know where ever they are forms a character motivated they're actually character patterns actually so patternistic,
that they're kind of being can be crystallized something very slight signature right or Iconic.
Yep now you,
where the one you made me watch your not you've inspired me to watch both a r rated comedies on homework tonight and the first one that we,
I've already Covenant being game night but the second is blockers.
They don't like I want to go to prom who is my goddamn virginity perfect
fathers matter.
You know both those films are astonishing because as we said before in terms of comedy they take very very straight lace characters and managed throughout the film to justify them,
taking extraordinary actions that said in blockers I know I've got two moments one where I think,
the the decision is amazingly pulled off and the other wear,
I personally didn't buy the decision but do you have given this was your your choice do you have any moment you want to highlight.
The whole set up I mean the market did you want to summarise the plot of blockers for those NZ.
I'll give it a crack sorry blockers is asset around 3 young women,
who are at school that their prom night and
they make a pact that 3 Friends Best Friends they make a pact to lose their virginity together on prom night and unfortunately they express this packed via a emojis on text messages and,
parents or three of their parents they they do this really well discover the chat thread decode the emojis and then set about at trying to stop that,
their daughters for various reasons from losing their virginity.
And I think the reason so that's the setup and it's damn as in typical comedy they are scalate and I think what I'm reporting that the motivation is the,
reason in hindsight I think it's a good example is it a oversea decide to can I enter,
stage intervention but the pattern the case but it's not the patterns with the parents as individuals or the daughter's individuals but the
dynamic between
I'm something we haven't talked about a life is that there can be a dynamic between characters that he's a pattern something that week I'm in the factories of even using that terminology from psycho like psychology like the chasm Stu dynamic where.
I mean I listening know that I try to undermine Chaz it at every opportunity I have because I'm an arsehole and that sounds great and you know Chas is a pompous.
He likes to correct your pronunciation.
Exactly like there is a pattern within a character dynamic so in this case there is the Dynamic between the three parents,
Lisa Hunter in in Mitchell and then is a dynamic between the three kids which is Julie Taylor,
and Sam more importantly nothing Dynamics when the parents is probably more distinctive than the donate between the three girls.
Will they drive the plot.
Yes which,
each of the parents has a very strong relationship with a child and that pattern it there for him but they're in,
in someone's been challenge by the kids going in asserting there agency bear their sexual agents.
Now do I just because we're talking about character motivations we actually have to go into a bit more depth in my brief summary because
the character patterns are so well established in this film so probably who you would identify as the protagonist is Lisa played by,
is it Leslie Mann and her daughter Julie.
Call me if you feel anxious,
Amy BBC me that wasn't too bad I mean if it was still on you could just we could wherever wherever I can do you know what I'm thinking,
you should send me photos throughout the night like not night light on but if you could do it like every 30 minutes or so then I can put together one of those ipecs that would be so fun would be a really I don't think you would regret.
Their relationship is that she's a single mum feels very protective over Julie particularly in relation to sex because she doesn't want Julie to become a young single mum or to be a teenage pregnancy.
That's a dynamic fit she's concerned it's coming from a place of butter character wound if you want is that terminology which is that you just want her daughter repeater over State,
where is Epping John Cena playing Mitchell what he's done with his daughter is very sporting she's very spawning he's almost like a tomboy and I think at some point he's been in denial that she is a,
woman with sexual Desire.
Architect laundry.
Gordon library.
Dr Mustapha Dr Martens immediately surgery I'm like an old school cartoons.
Digidirect.
What is interesting is that she of all the free characters is the one who probably the way she views sex is a little bit more,
quote unquote male in 12 youth bats is a perspective from him.
An interesting choice of words I was going to say she had the healthiest approach a teenager toward sex.
Yes but I think it's something that you don't we move contacts of these films I I agreed is the healthiest but in the context of these films you know female sexuality is tends to be secondary to their male desires to lose the feed plates are as they say.
Kayla's dad Mitchell is just a guess the more stereotypical American Dad wants have a shotgun and stop any penis from entering his daughter but as you said his relationship with Lee says he's always wanted to be in with the other,
parents I think he's more easier stay-at-home dad certainly his wife is the primary breadwinner and he's constantly been trying to be really nice and and ingratiating top of the other parents and,
he's too straight for even the best rape so there's that kind of conflict where both of Mitchell and Lisa or kind of a team in there,
combined efforts but there is a tiny bit of frictional complete between them.
Where is Hunter Sam's
father he I think I cheat on his wife he was kind of an absentee father so there's this sense of compensation but we all scat the sense of his positive which is unlike Lisa and Mitchell.
He's like Peter his prom date so he initially like his massively over-the-top inserting himself in the celebrations wanting his daughter to have the best time ever.
This is going to make snow even waterproof a house.
But then when he learns of the pact he wants to stop them because he is a he correctly knows that his daughter,
he's gay but hasn't come out yet and you know me not even herself realise she's gay but wants to stop her from,
bakery having to have sex with a boy to realise that she's gay so,
yeah very different motivations but he's also very much about not wanting to ruin their prom night as well which is a big.
Conflict between the three parents hooning around.
I'm a stiper.
So I think that it's just a general observation in those particular Dynamics a very clearly an established early on in the first act but also the relationships between the Dynamic between each of the parent.
But ok so we set the patterns bit and the dynamics.
So that I think I think it's
Heinz like that back it from over right and I kind of get some over the first axle to get them why do they want it interview
have you gone somewhere for that is a cultural thing I think this film works on that level which is 18 sex comedy from the point of view of the girls wanting to lose their v plate that seems
kind of discordant possibly even and not a challenge to parents won't boot battle on but they've been made sure that it's not just oh my god are girls mate you know,
girls need to be pure in the boys the ones I get laid which is stupid because.
I just like to point out this is 18 sex comedy where all the young boys,
only representations of obtaining positive enthusiastic consent I was,
you know like not to get on a high horse about this but you kind of thought how is that even possible and they are rated teen sex genre and this film pulls it off every single one of those boys is constantly checking in with the girls.
And the parents of self-harm mode of Us Australia motivated by oh my god you get themselves in any key situation,
it is a very positive it's more that we don't wanna make them have make decisions that they regret any particularly Hunter and this is a good character,
Bing.
You're a stupid sack back to.
Because she's gay.
Really did she come out to you really speak to me because whatever lesbian Buddhist American.
The point is a guarantee that ok.
But it's kind of this moment where they go I he's actually more insightful than,
which is a good luck at breaking the pattern a little bit like me thing as an absentee father he's actually more insightful and sex positive the other parent and shift up the Dynamic as well
I think what's interesting about the Dynamic and I don't think we've been to play any particular moment is it all the cakes by having three of them all have slightly different motivations been vacant each
that one time making step step up and get the others over obstacle over a hurdle so that their particular motivation is the other two maybe just wait a bit then they can go away let's,
let's take it to the next level for whatever.
So given that this was your example is there a particular decision or moment that you want to call out.
Well I come in cos essentially what the kind of food structure of the film is it's it's it's almost like a
a storm in a way the girls got to prom my they turn off to promote to stop this happening but the promise basically moved on and the hunting them from party the party to try and catch up with them,
they kind of what is the midpoint is they are led to this house party where these two kids are at the,
door that think they cops and they need to prove that they're not police otherwise everything it for another party.
Your mind is where -45 is accurate 7794 now what about a little Chuggington.
Bring.
Play drinking game not a problem what we do because we're kids is due but chugging.
Rob Stewart.
Chucky ramorum.
That's when you think that about it is they kind of use the naivety of the parents against them and put them in a committee set piece.
I mean I don't want show my age but I'd never had a busy that.
You've never heard of ecology name is it said of Warren Ellis comic man oh man it's like you've never heard of people dipping tampons in vodka.
That kind of rings at high school bell.
Oh man you're so know if you're going to be personal blockers soon enough.
No I hope that will be a lot more sex positive I think it'll be me trying to stop my wife from being the blocker.
You can play this back to me 15 years.
I might as is there any reason that you've decided to go and get your rifle licence like that just decided to take up shooting.
Anyway psychology Haven you are picking a character that actually what happens if Mitchell agrees to enter this but chug.
Tag you're it.
Is it a common occurrence with me they have had things.
Breathing.
Connor you know you know Connor Aldridge the chef,
hello children now now he took drugs in the everyday,
literally Helms
give me the fucken to.
What we quickly realised is it the teenagers I just Point your fast when I'm about faking picking up at you up there are some trying to sweetly inhale what's the equivalent of but inhaling have my ID,
Argo this podcast.
Consume.
Consume suck.
Absorb.
For me if a Leslie over top set piece but it didn't work for you and I didn't work for you not on a comedic level but on a character motivation.
Yeah so Mitchell is the straightest,
down the line of the three characters so I think eat you out of those three characters that you'd have you would obviously kind of think Hunter would be the one who would.
Sign up for this and I can't remember the reason that he gives to not do it and I think the main thing that I didn't by about this moment is that they didn't consider,
other options no we just seen in Game Night 2 amazing examples of the characters talking through their options and ending up with the crazy one,
and I'm not saying that they needed to have that debate but I didn't believe that they wouldn't just go,
John Cena's huge I didn't believe that he went just pushed past the kids and wonder into the house trying to search for Kayla or ask other kids.
Robot that they would have just been like I've got the cops here cuz the whole point is that he is you'd but he looks like a cock your dresses like a cock like he's pretty straight it.
Yeah baby why would that bother him we've already established that they're not caring about there being a.
Yeah being seen that way I don't know you no part of this maybe just subjective right part of it may be that,
big big didn't work for me and so I didn't roll with it but I think the reason why didn't work from his I didn't believe that this character as they had Pat and Tim,
would make this decision and I think I needed you know some other patterning.
Get me across this line either they set it up earlier or they submitted and twisted all they needed more external pressure more goals Stakes and urgency to get him across the line for me.
Yeah I guess it you can't get the ceiling that he's probably feeling it is probably a bit straight edge intensive is,
queries got a conservative Street Kevin elation ship to 60 the idea that he will selling have a tube stuck up his bum,
is a little bit outside of the realm of what's within his character where is you know if you have hindered him his wife enjoy a healthy sex life,
which they do at the end but they actually showed that he and his wife spy things are they end up playing like a bifold Dude game where is yet the sensor the probably little bit vanilla.
But I would have bought something like oh I take my protein supplements as suppositories like they could have subverted the decision it wouldn't have been as funny and I don't think it would have been as rewarding at the end of the film.
Had they not chosen this character pathway you know it had to be against his will but I you think they could've been a funny subversion beat.
Well it was consensual but you know.
No it's alright wrong to his words with against his character right but I think beef,
he was going to break his character Luke to do something so far out of character I needed something more to get me across the line like maybe a text messaging that chat thread
ok low ripping open a condom or something that is like wash it this is happening now unless I get this information right now I failed.
Ok III can see that then why didn't click for you because you write like
like a cat internal Carter motivation there's not much there other than the sense of him needing to be Alpha in front of the,
other to make a sense of Lake well hi I'll do anything to protect much I like a bit of one up some ship but that's not very physically well develop better I don't think they're trying to one up some that's what's nice about the K2 develop wake dynamic is a little bit of,
conflict between them is kind of seeded early on but that's not that I do that the trying to show who's the better,
parent the more concerned parrot where is if they had been you believe that he be like well I know they Pierce guys on the most concern pair and I'll do anything for my child,
and I do I take a moment to get a mad chat out Kayla Geraldine ok,
pronouncing aim this one lesson cos she's Australian and she's in a friend of the podcasts film emo the musical and she's a fucking hilarious and it smelled so I assume ship I hope that you get through big as she is
she vn-vp given this is like a first American feature and probably heard like second third feature ever do you definitely MVP.
Emo the musical which was on Netflix internationally don't know if it still is but yeah shout out to.
Is there another example.
I looked at I think just a contrast this and then show that I held the film in high esteem I loved how Lisa the Leslie Mann characters,
final decision is she actually wins she gets to the room where her daughter and,
Austin are going to have sex and she gets to the hotel room and Austin has gone to great lengths to make it as beautiful and romantic and experience as possible and you can see her wondering around the room,
you know she's got everything that she wanted for the film and then as you know to use their screenwriting cliches now gone watch you need it which is the realisation that her daughter.
Is ok to make this decision and she's not making the mistake that she's trying to protect her from and,
it's a beautiful moment and then they turn that into a great comedic set piece which is she's in the hotel room,
she's changed her mind about confronting a daughter and then her daughter an awesome come out of the bathroom and suddenly she has to like I think she starts out hiding under the bed and then she have to somehow extricate herself from the room where head,
she is committing her daughter to lose her virginity.
Nto she ends up wake crawling behind there's a buying a TV and getting electrocuted and and it's a really great set piece but it feels totally born out of carrot.
The climax for all the three characters give Ellie does a great job of coming out of character c got her climates where is what Hoppers with son to Hunter is he track down Sam.
It's just I was worried about I deserve that say something and I'm just going to say it.
Sam I have realised.
They have made a big step mother cheating on her mum
what now I'm marrying Mr but no that was a mistake because then I wouldn't have had you.
I've made lots of mistakes but the big is a 11 hat twin your mum get in the way.
In return it she comes out to her.
She comes she comes out to him and that touches them kind of greater Bond between them and where is like Mitch.
Get the hell away from my daughter you little piece of shit.
Animism anime.
So you don't think I can make my own decisions and handle mess up really fucking.
Killer girl I'm just trying to figure this thing out.
Panadol I don't know it's a bad snow and you know it.
Stronger the best you are.
You built me up Amy strong.
You make me into you I am like that you did not have to save me tonight you taught me how to do that long time.
They're all kinds nice little moments with a wrap up those Jenny for that feeling to Tweed like as the danger of being really,
habit angel being really pretty but I felt like a good finished of those journeys and,
in consequence of those character motivations this kind of film which we haven't again have really talked about,
the character motivations kinda have to be for filled at the end of a standalone for Phil fill my disk they need to stop
Blackbird I need to have a final decision which is not to achieve what they set out to achieve which is to stop them from
having sex so that's actually something they have to decide to do at the edge of them in their own way up to decide to do at the end of the film they have to go against their they make a decision in which means they're regional motivation is no longer,
does that make sense.
And that's you know as we said at the beginning that's why this episode is focus more on features then on TV because there is a finite,
journey to travel and sometimes the plot that you want the characters to move along you don't necessarily have the luxury of time to use all the craft tools like you know,
establishing backstory or really setting the pattern,
or what have you and so often you get to as you pointed out the decisions that bumper off in these really key structural story decisions that the story needs the character to go through but just not enough groundwork has been laid,
and the goals or Stakes or urgency haven't been pushed hard enough or the obstacle enough obstacles have been cleared out the way social you don't buy,
the character going against that Pat.
And a lot of like I'm just thinking brought him helicopter action film good guys doing pretty crazy stuff for they escalate the gold states in the agencies pretty high and there are all,
if you think about what goals Jason urgency mein translated goal is it there about in many ways about,
character motivation there just externally demonstrator boardroom at a sizable ways of motivating factors which work for setting to be certain kinds of films with it's Thriller all action,
horror which is it,
you've got a Drum tie the goal for the character so we know what they're after we Stakes what happens if they don't achieve at any urgency which is about doing it with in particular timeframe it's quite simply if it's a formula for character motivation make,
cos it is compelling but I think Stephen Cleary would argue that being within the character and understanding what their motivation is and using point of view is a great way to get characters all audiences on side characters,
even when they're bad people you know,
I'm trying to be a good example of where they use GS you two can't get us on the side of the evil characters like we switch inside their point of you sure there is one.
Well you're one of my big learnings from this episode is just,
I'm right there the all the podcast that have come out with the Russo brothers and Marcus mcfeely talking about how infinity War Is,
told from vanoss's point of view it's his journey and the reason why they pull off,
his motivation is farfetch and ridiculous as it seems as I think there's like three or four scenes where he has to explain to different people why he's doing what he's doing they take the time because otherwise you would have been this like meaningless purple Cypher.
Destroy our life ever been to see whether there's an answer to that in ingame weather but he's convinced of the wrong us of his decision or.
He like doesn't play out in any other way or is he returned to be Mount Agnes.
We can only wait and see hence dating this podcast incredibly.
Insert update on endgame here.
So given that we've covered craft tools of,
time of goal steaks and urgency of well building of backstory revelation of
explaining debating and withholding the decisions and the most important I think is establishing the character panel loop,
what Mr Willis are your key learnings.
A lot of stuff will pre thinking but like as in we came in with an idea but I think the idea of they've got a better terminology but,
a little starter engine like in Breaking Bad and inter turns out the Matrix Iconic
little intrumental steps that gets to the big thing that once it's going get your story going today I think what is great about the Matrix and yes it's it's first aid it took us time,
it meant when we got to the the red pill moment we understood and when Walter White gets to the point where he decides not to take the money to,
cure his cancer is going to Cup we will there with him and awesome lack of Awesome incredible character move at the end of season 2 very watches Jesse's girlfriend diameter decision not,
you know you have to look at the whole con but the whole the whole,
seasons about building up to that moment so I think that idea of kind doing incrementally and maybe you need to go how do we get arcade to from a to b and it could be that you go to A1 A2 A3 A4 A5 and build them into it,
and it becomes a succession of small incisions it's much easier to scale a mountain one kind of belt,
if you're Tom Cruise it's much easier to scale the mountain like one hand free climbing over another free playing hands.
What about you jazz.
I'll look I think the main crafting that I personally min take from this is whenever I get the note.
I don't buy that they do this.
There's obviously a whole lot of stuff that we can do craft tools in setting the pattern earlier that will work I mean
I've had this complaint numerous times on the podcast before 90% of my rewriting and re-drafting happens in the first act because it's all about the setup but that said and in the scene fix,
is just to debate the decision and it might end up being,
cut it might end up being something that you do to justify at scrip level that when you're actually onset the director in the actors can,
do it in performance and it won't bump it all.
I just get Scott late meet you in performance and then you can't turn the fuck out of it because.
Answer I think you know there's a lot to be said,
just when I was thinking about it like debating the decision there's that great scene at the end of Guardians of the Galaxy Vol 1 when they choose these guys who are,
how to criminals On the Run
choose to be heroes and is a lot of genre convention where they possibly didn't need that scene but they had this massive long seen standing in a circle or sitting in a circle debating whether to become heroes or not
and then it ends with rocket saying.
No I'm stared at your happy standing up now bunch of jackasses standing in a.
You know undercutting that decision with humour it it sells it against you it's take time don't be afraid to take time.
To explain your characters motivations.
Guess my great great character moment because it's a characters realising that that they were entering like a new the leveling up there into your new era.
Anyway thanks to you and thanks to our listeners in particular our patrons we know it's been a long time life has gotten in between us but if you want more Drive 0 more regularly,
please consider supporting us three Patron but
if you don't want more draught 0 more frequently and you are like one of our listeners band who wants to contribute to the podcast but doesn't feel that he can do so without getting something in return Stu is gone to great lengths,
to produce match.
Yes you can get t-shirts phone cases pillowcases toad so can get a whole bunch of stuff that they make on teepublic so we get a little kick back on that stuff
so please consider checking out or you'll get a permanent discount if you are a draught hero backup,
Patron so you were two payment discount anytime think of fibre sign up for $1 and save yourself 30% so it kind of worth saving
coming out Patron to get that discount sweet sweet discount special thanks to Chris. Paul Rob Rob and Sandra for being a Top Eleven level patrons,
you guys are awesome.
I just like to give a special thanks to one of our top-level patrons York him who has since due to life circumstances hat fall off a top tier.
I just want to thank you and for the.
Very generous.
Contribution that you've made to make him more drosera more fan and it is you know God as much as we're an infrequent release we would have released less this year were it not for the support of our patrons.
Anyway till we meet again thanks you.
It's my birthday tomorrow member that bye.
Happy Birthday.
If you feel so compelled to argue
with Chaz and myself about anything on this episode of anything in general you can find many ways to contact us at draught hyphens xero.com and there you'll also find the show notes for this episode as well as links to,
share the burden and read and review us on Apple podcasts and if you're feeling even more supportive you can also find links to a patron page.
And now the back matter.
And this is such a stupid it isn't,
are the Marvel universe which is the only functioning societies that we see presented in the film Guinness did dick Dynasty.
Dynastic the dynasties right the only two government that we see that a functional a diet dynasties which is wakanda and what is now left of.
32 functioning can't governments with really Cena like Asgard Anaconda
and the both Monica part of me was like me because Activision is like royalty and and in Black Panther it was very clear that we'll see that there were kind of people that we considered better but I have no access to,
black panther decision-making because there is still the balance between his people vs. Of an outsider and yes but pamper ends in with him wanting to rejoin the world and help them but there's a big difference between sacrifice senior men to save like effectively,
you know crown prince or royalty.
It's actually one of the reasons I like I can never say is now probably better Farquhar you know the director Antonio for choir for choir.
I saw is so quiet but yeah anyway.
Cooper.
And it's Antoine I think but anyway.
Animal get up and watch what I really like about Antoine fuqua fuqua.
I'm a sucker for soccer.
Black Betty's violence feels really intimate and personal and you know,
wait there's obviously a little bit of Ballina I guess but I know we think it doesn't well at school.
What that Matthew Vaughn is another person he does that really well I remember a friend and I were both super excited about going to see Kick-Ass and I came out of that film loving it and he hated it really a fronted by and I think because the violence was so,
graphic that he felt oh my god I can't enjoy this where as I was like that's the point of trying to make is it's trying to say all these other superhero films that are so violent,
you are enjoying something that is awful and this film was rubbing your nose in that.
I'm in my Vera hovans fantastic at that as well making it kinda like the cartoonish me his violent kind of makes you repulsed at the same time anyway that's.
Are we slightly off topic.
Maybe but I never get motivation like it is one of those weird things work like there's no blood and it doesn't your personal intimate then your characters are completely fine with
effectively mowing down a whole bunch of people there's a whole lot of Collateral Damage black with super Man of Steel flying around of smacking into buildings the point where they had to hold the whole Islands evacuated is the warehouse Island.